I picked this book up at my public library because I had put it on my reading list a while back when I saw that the President(!) of the United States George Bush read it while he was on vacation too.I went to my local cofee place and got a MEDIUM regular cofee flavored cofee but in a LARGE cup (so theres room for plenty of milk which I like and also you only get charged for a medium even though its in a large).  Anyway I am reading this book and it seems okay but then this guy with a laptop bumps into my chair where I have rested my cofee which is not at all my fault because thats why the chair has a little ledge there.  So then this guy says he is sorry but that doesnt exactly unspil my cofee if you catch my meaning.  And he offers to pay for a new cofee but it doesnt really matter its the principle of the thing.Anyway then he leaves and I notice my copy of the book has cofee spilled on it not just my pants as I thought previously.  So I'm not about to read a book with cofee stains all over it so I take it back to the library.Now here I have to point out that I had a little incident a couple weeks back with the librarian and long story short they lost a book about a fireman that I returned and made me pay for it but not without a fight.  Well you better believe that same librarian who yelled at me is watching me now whenever I go in there and she sees that cofee stain right off when I turn the book in.  I explain that its still perfectly good and you can still read it and it wasnt even my fault and maybe they should get the $8.50 from the cofee house they made the cofee not me.But you can guess how this ended up.  I am down another $8 dollars and change (I paid the .50 cents in pennies I got from the place I keep pennies in the car which got me a cross look since I counted them out one by one but it was worth it).  And I never finished the book since it was ruined.But! I liked the parts I read "okay" and if the President likes it I guess it gets FOUR STARS only I made it TWO STARS because I only read half.  Maybe I will read the second half later if that librarian retires and then I will come back and give this book it's missing TWO STARS if it ends well.Lesson learned is life is not always fair but you "keep on keepin on" like they say