I was eager to read this book only to find it a terrible dissapointment.  One would think that a 'scholar' such as he would have at least a basic understanding of the Hebraic roots of Judeo-Christianity.  It was obvious that he clearly was clueless to the known Messianic signs spoken of in the Gospels.  He is also clueless to the Pharisidical Judaism of the time..not comprehending that all of Christ's teachings were completely in keeping with true Judaism. All of which can be found in contemporary Rabbinical teachings of His time. This book, which some unfortunate readers will swallow as truth will only continue to propagate a backward understanding of the gospels.  Like it or not..the New Testament writings are Hebraic and explain what fulfilled Judaism is.  Those who need to divorce Judaism from Christianity are offering a church which is already confused, just more confusion. It is through studying the Hebraic roots that we even begin to understand the 'difficult' sayings of our Lord; 'fullfillment of the Law', binding and loosing (the Law)..etc as well as the parables.  The delivering of the deaf mute..was a Messianic sign, because the Rabbi's knew that 'they' had to ask the said demon its name but He did not.  Lazerus's resurrection was a Messianic sign because the Rabbi's believed that anyone could come back to life during the first 'three' days after death.  Cleansing of a leper was  Messainic sign because the Rabbi's understood that it was a 'divine' punishment, that only God could lift. How else can we link Isa 53 with the 'stripes' He was to received as part of fulfilling the punishment the Law required for transgression, and yet 'minus one'. Had our Lord transgressed the Law, then the Jews themselves could have legally killed Him.  Remember Paul (Saul)?  He also does not understand John and his huge part in the whole picture, in that the Kingdom 'began' with John.  He was the 'breachmaker' as fortold in prophecy.  This is Hebraic roots 101.  People, please study the Hebraic roots of Christianity and do not waste your time with this book. The fact that he keeps defending his position as 'not' anti-semetic, should give you a clue