The premise put forth in the title is supported by some keen insights into "leadership by Calling" and comparisons to it with "modern leadership theory."  Les Csorba writes about the danger of pursuing results without compassion; a point with which I agree. Unfortunately, some of the examples he chooses are questionable...  After warning about the danger of weak character in powerful leaders, Csorba chastises German Chancellor Schroeder for turning back on some promises to George W Bush regarding the war on terrorism and then goes on to deride him for his four wives.  Meanwhile he praises Jack Welch for going from Neutron Jack to a gentler Jack (which Jack says he would abandon if needed)while still making the "tough" decisions that got the "results" for the shareholders.  Jack can change is mind and go back to compassionless results... OK.  Also, there is no mention that Jack was getting results with his personal secretary whilst the wife was at home...  Unfortunately the theme in Csorba's examples becomes one of bashing the mistakes of Democrats and forgiving the sins of the Republicans.  He does sprinkle in some condemnation for a few wrong-minded Republicans in a meek attempt at balance.  It's a shame that he turned this into a politcally tainted work.  It started off so well.  It started off well even though it will turn off readers who are not people of faith as faith is central precept to this book.  It also started off well even though he chose to make George W Bush the role model for how to be a trust-able leader.  Unfortunately this conservative/political bent turned an even harder right from there and kept going.  It kept going to the point that I could no longer plan on sharing this book with some folks I know who really need it. They would simply say its a Bush-ie/right-winger book and dismiss the valuable and otherwise soundly argued premise.  Too bad.  Csorba almost had a classic instead of a politically tainted leadership manual.I say this even though I am Republican, am one of the few folks who would admit they were voting for Bush BEFORE the election, am a person of faith, and tend to find the Dems an easy target.  But this book was supposed to be about so much more than Republican politics.  Too bad