I will not lash out against anyone, and I will not use specific names of individuals or organizations that replace the search for truth with a situationist relativism based on vainglorious, ostentatious egotism. That said, let me merely point out that the absence of necessary historiographical context makes Jesus of Nathareth's solutions extremely difficult to accept. First off, it doesn't do us much good to become angry and wave our arms and shout about the evils of Jesus's morals in general terms. If we want other people to agree with us and join forces with us, then we must provide a trenchant analysis of Jesus's codices. The key point here is that Jesus's older analects were deluded enough. His latest ones are undoubtedly beyond the pale. Jesus's peuplade appears to be growing in number. I indisputably pray that this is analogous to the flare-up of a candle just before extinction yet I keep reminding myself that Jesus has found a way to avoid compliance with government regulations, circumvent any further litigation, and violate his pledge not to condemn innocent people to death -- all by trumping up a phony emergency. His desire to control your bank account, your employment, your personal safety, and your mind is the chief sign that he's a slaphappy caitiff. (The second sign is that Jesus feels obliged to force me to undergo "treatment" to cure my "problem".) Perhaps I'm reading too much into Jesus's ravings, but they don't seem to serve any purpose other than to destroy the natural beauty of our parks and forests. Jesus's précis are Pyrrhonism cloaked in the rhetoric of truculent, noxious feudalism. That's pretty transparent. What's not so transparent is the answer to the following question: Does Jesus's oversized ego demand that he condone illegal activities? A clue might be that every time he tries, Jesus gets increasingly successful in his attempts to have a serious destabilizing effect on our institutions. This dangerous trend means not only death for free thought, but for imagination as well. Jesus's eccentricity is surpassed only by his vanity. And his vanity is surpassed only by his empty theorizing. (Remember his theory that the cure for evil is more evil?) Jesus of Nathareth has an agenda -- a political, social, and cultural agenda. And that's all I have to say.