This book, unlike Morris's work on Hillary, is actually worth reading, because its perspective and analysis of our 42nd president is fascinating. Though the title is a little tiresome (and becomes especially so when Morris continues to say throughout the book `Why? Because he could!') the book is a fast page turner.  I particularly enjoyed Morris's portrayal of Clinton as one who only came to life around other people: if they were happy, he was, if they were in distress, he felt their pain. A master of reading people and changing according to their feelings, Clinton was perfectly suited to becoming a president who ruled by polls. Enter Dick Morris. As Clinton's chief poller, he also became, at one time, his chief political advisor. And Clinton needed one. As `My Life' by Clinton shows, the president had no overall strategy and failed to see events as interconnected. For him, each issue needed to be examined individually and with Clinton, that was a laborious endeavor:  the prez had the painful habit of considering each argument with equal weight, and therefore was extremely indecisive and cautious to take action. Result? Fiasco's like Waco, Somalia, Bosnia and Health Care reform. More seriously for the future: the loss of the Congress to the Republicans (over ten years now and counting) and the failure to stop Bin Laden.  Morris gives credit where credit is due though: Clinton's work on welfare reform cut the roll books in half and the tough work on deficit reduction allowed the economic boom of the 1990s to take place. Also interesting, was Clinton's use of the presidency as a bully pulpit for families and education: an issue that was local politics, and therefore cost Clinton nothing in the budget but brought in massive political capital. Read this book before reading Clinton's `My Life'.  Why? Because Morris points out the inconsistencies and just plain untruths contained therein.  Also, Morris says that the president's autobiography is the `Rosetta Stone' that decodes Clinton. If that is the case, then Morris is certainly the interpreter.   