Overall, I think this is a very good book for someone who is trying to turn their health habits around, but is overwhelmed by all of the possibilities.  It also a good track to run on for someone who wants to implement important life changes in an easy step-wise fashion.  There is nothing fanatical about the recommendations and they can be easily implemented by almost anyone.One of the things I most like about this book is the encouraging tone and the prioritization of various changes that are made little-by-little in eating habits, exercise, etc.  This book recommends walking as the main source of exercise and gives some great arguments for why this makes sense.  I think there are also some good and simple nutritional guidelines e.g. eliminated trans fatty acids, eating more fiber, using more olive oil, etc.Mixed in with some well researched conclusions are Dr. Weil's opinions.  For example, he recommends a fairly simple supplementation regimen.  While it is true that not everything he says is necessarily supported by corresponding studies, it is also probably that some of it is on the mark, but the data is not all in or all of the variables are not possible to isolate.  At the least, I don't see where this level of supplementation would do harm to most people.I also like that Dr. Weil takes a holistic approach to health.  He not only looks at and talks about the body.  He also addressed stress and relaxation, life attitudes and other ingredients of a healthy life that impact on health.  While he is very commercial, he is also a Harvard trained physician and I do think that he has some very good insights to share.While in some ways I think this book can be better.  I would still recommend it to almost anyone, especially people who are intimidated by the idea of exercising and changing their life habits.  While not every suggestion might be on target, I am sure that if someone implemented ALL the suggestions over eight weeks, they would undergo a big positive change in the state of their health.  I have certainly found this to be true and I cheat on some of them   ;