After talking to several pharmaceutical reps I know, I decided to shoot for a sales rep job myself. This book gives some very good insight into what it takes to land a job in the industry, what kind of people you'll be dealing with, what the hiring pricess is like (with particular emphasis on the interviews), and then what the job is like for people who manage to get hired. I'm very glad that I took the time to read this book because, after finishing it, I realize that being a pharmaceutical sales rep sounds like one of the most horrible careers imaginable. Obviously this is simply my own opinion, and I know there are plenty of people out there who enjoy this kind of work, but nearly every single thing about it, from the superficial way applicants are screened, to the shameless pandering that sales reps must do on the job, sounds simply awful to me. If you are considering a career as a drug rep, you should definitely do your homework to make sure it's really something you would enjoy. This book may very well convince you that you would love it. If so, that's great, and I hope you are successful. But if this kind of work is not right for you, this book can be equally helpful because you'll find out by reading it what the job is really like.  There are a lot of books on this subject on the market right now, and although this one was helpful, I have to say that I think Insider's Guide to the World of Pharmaceutical Sales by Jane Williams is far more comprehensive and detailed than this one. If you only buy one book, definitely buy that one instead. But if you buy two books, Pharmaceutical Landing is a good second choice.One more thing: There's some sweet irony about this book that I just have to report. The author goes to great lengths describing how he scrutinizes every single thing about job applicants, from their shoes to their body language. He also stresses well-written resumes and cover letters. One obvious piece of advice is that job applicants spell check everything before submitting it. Imagine my surprise, then, when on the very next page it says candidates should "...right a short paragraph..." about their job experiences. It seems to me that someone who is going to be as critical as this author is about job candidates ought to take the time to spell check his own book