	I think this is the best book that I have ever read. I thought that the Civil War was very, very boring but when our class started to read Bull Run I knew that I was wrong. The way that Paul Fleischman writes he would leave you wanting to read more. From the way Paul Fleischman described the characters to the words that Paul Flesichman use to set the tone of the characters he just seem to draw a cool picture of what is going on in your minds eye. Each character has a different story of the war and of life. I would suggest this book to anyone who is learning about the Civil War. It supplies you with a lot of information you might not get in  the history book and tells it in a way that makes you want to learn. This book was excellent from the first page I read. Even though this novel is very brilliant, some people might not like it. If they can not wait to know what happens to a favorite character, like one of my favorite characters Dietrick Herz. He had the funniest voice I ever heard. When Paul Fleischman leaves you hanging he really leaves you hanging. But the only way to find out the ending is to read the entire book and find out what happens for yourself. And trust me it will be worth your while this truly is a magnificent book. The best that I have ever read and if I liked it then for surely you will love it too, trust me. Before I read Bull Run I had only read books with one or two characters and this type of book was really, really new to me. I had to get use to it a little but since it wasn't very hard to read it only took a short time to adjust to the Bull Run story by Paul Fleischman. Some of the characters that I really liked was Toby Boyce because he had a good attitude on trying to learn how to use the fife. Another was Carlotta King because she had a very spunky voice in this story like how the Yankees would get rid the of the law so that the slaves could be free and be in control of there own religion and what I mean by that is they can practice there own religion. Another one of my favorite characters is Vergil Peavy. I think that he was my favorite character because of the way he sounds in the story. In the story he sounds like he's from Texas also the way how he talks about the war like they were the big war heroes. And my last favorite character is Shem Suggs because he was the lonly one who likes to talk about horses and to horses also what they are like who they should be with. Shem Suggs is the person who takes care of all the horses, that he watches pretty much like baby sitting the horses. But the reason I really really like him is because he minds his own business and doesn't talk to people about the war and the politics all he talks to are his friends which are the horces. That is the reason why I like Shem Suggs the best out of all the other characters the best because he is smart