I read the good Doctor's book Eat to Live and then bought China Study which he talks a lot about in this book.  Then I bought this book being curious after reading a few other books on fasting and this book wins hands down though I do feel he's being overly cautious about doing long fasts of more than 5 days without medical supervision to protect himself as people have been doing long fasts for centuries without medical supervision and doing just fine and since finding a Doctor in even a large community is rare indeed one is left to do this on their own.  Being a vegetarian for more than 37 years I became an almost 100% vegan after reading Eat to Live and have to say that I feel great with more energy and even started reducing anti-depression med I've been taking for severe depression.  Yesterday I took my last pill! All week I've been emptying  my refrigerator in order to start my water fast tomorow.  And reducing my one cup  of coffee in the norning to none because I remember clerly that awful caffiene withdrawl healache, I'm going to do 10 days and hoping for 14.  I've done 3 day fast before and one 5 day and that was great.  Yes, there are some flaws in both books and I wish the good Doctor would have made use of a good editor as it's not as professionally written as it could be and the recipes in Eat to Live are atrocious with too much canned foods and not healthy organic foods but I'll forgive him because he got me on The China Study which changed my life and his studies and own experience helping people get well are good and inspiring.Why am I going on a 10 day detox water diet?  I read Randall Fitxgerald's One Hundred Year Lie and that was the catalyst that pulled it all together for me. A detox fast absolutely necessary after my years on earth and after too many years on anti-depressantsI'm keeping Dr. Fuhrman's Fasting book close by during the next 10 hopefully 14 days for support and encouragement.  I did make the mistake of telling my coworkers that I was starting a 10 day fast though the good Doctor warned me not to.  The comments from them were typical I suppose knowing their health or lack of but I held my tongue.  Those comments are just like the stupid ones some of the reviewers of Dr. Fuhnman's books make along with other nutrituion books. But I thinkof the wisest words," you are responsible for your own health" and think about my not being able to remember the last time I had a cold and the last flu I had in 1964 and smile.  I don't intend to support the ill-begotten medical-pharmecutical industry.The last time I went to the Dr. I promptly firedhim after his continued to badger me into getting manograms. and other tests,   I repeated that I eat well etc and he said nutrition had nothing to to do with breast cancer and I just walked out of his office forever. I'd rather read a book