One Good Knight (2006) is the second Fantasy novel in the Tales of the Five Hundred Kingdoms series, following The Fairy Godmother.  In the previous volume, Alexander and Elena organized resistance to the invasion of Fleurberg by a Dark Magician.  After the death of the Katschei, Alexander and Elena were wedded, becoming Godmother and Consort.  Then an Order of Champions was established at Glass Mountain, with Alexander as their Master, and Elena was given charge of Fleurberg in addition to her other kingdoms.In this novel, Princess Andromeda of Acadia is nineteen years old, but is still considered a child by her mother, Queen Cassiopeia, and Chief Advisor Solon Adacritus.  She writes a report on the merchants for a trade conference and impresses both the Queen and the Chief Advisor.  After that, her mother orders redecoration of the Princess wing, appoints two ladies to design her wardrobe and jewelry, and assigns a steward to handle her affairs.Andromeda is quite overwhelmed by this attention and augments her studies to further impress her mother.  She notices that income from wrecked ships has grown due to an increase in the number and severity of storms.  Her studies and inquiries suggest that this increase is probably due to the manipulations of a great wizard.  She reports this matter to her mother.Afterward, Andromeda is resting high up in a tree within the palace garden when she notices a strange flying creature.  As it comes toward her, she recognizes that it is a dragon.  Then it reaches the palace and she observes that it is a very large dragon.  It flames some high architectural features, grabs a couple of animals and flies away.The panic within the palace is phenomenal and the subsequent meeting of the Queen's advisors is very lively.  Andromeda has quickly reviewed the literature on dragons -- consisting mainly of myths and legends -- and reports to the advisors that the only known method of managing a dragon is the sacrifice of virginal maidens.  The ensuing discussion is even livelier, mostly concerning the means of choosing such sacrifices.Queen Cassiopeia states that the only fair way to select sacrifices is by a lottery.  After the spate of crazy volunteers dies down, a lottery is organized.  Some women find ways to disqualify themselves, but others are taken by the dragon.  Rumors begin spreading that anyone who speaks out against the Queen is more likely to have a family member selected for the sacrifice.  But then Andromeda is selected.This novel is mostly about the influence of the Tradition within the Five Hundred Kingdoms.  Andromeda's knowledge of the Tradition comes in handy at various points in this quest.The Queen has sent to Glass Mountain for a Champion to fight the dragon, but the good knight doesn't come forward as expected.  Someone has erected a magical barrier at the border to keep out such warriors.  However, Andromeda is sort of saved by a Champion at the sacrificial site.  Andromeda convinces the knight to take her along as a guide and finally proves to the Champion that she can be a help rather than a hindrance.They travel cross-country in the same direction that the dragon had flown, stopping for supplies here and there, and finally enter the Wyrding Lands.  They encounter unicorns and a fox along the way before meeting the dragon and his brother.  Then Andromeda learns that all is not as it seems.Andromeda is nineteen and naive.  Then she is faced with one of the most difficult of issues:  does her mother love her.  While many events occur in this plot, this one issue is the crux of the story.  Even her interspecies romance with the younger dragon is only a temporary relief from this main concern.Highly recommended for Lackey fans and for anyone else who enjoys tales of adventure, betrayal and romance.-Arthur W. Jordi