I am a chemistry major and so I really like this book, however when I initially started o-chem, I did get a little intimidated by perusing through this textbook. So I suggest, to people who were in a similar position as me to also have a look at Hornback or McMurry. The text isnt an "Advanced" textbook perse (after a good grounding in the basics for three days, I found this book quite user friendly), its organization is completely different to most other o-chem textbooks and its presentation of ideas is purely mechanistic. Both of which are ideally good things for chemistry majors who require the quintessential knowledge of structure and its impact on function and reactivity.An examples is that when introducing orbitals, and orbital interaction; Greeves et al quickly go to HOMO and LUMO based discussions and their impact on bonding and antibonding.Wade and McMurry leave this, one of the most important principles in defining nuclephiles and electrophiles till later.A second example would be the appropriate structural implications of nucleophiles and electrophiles with respect to vacant orbitals, lone pairs and charge. These are the things used to identify em.As such, the book isnt fragmented. Each chapter has its specific niche topic and thereofore individuals get a complete understanding of various topics and their implications on the overall organic chemistry. Chapters are well referenced so if, say you are only interested in NMR then you can skip chapters and read only those pertaining to that subject and yet still get a good understanding. Most textbooks act like a stupid monologue, miss a passage and you'd completely miss organic chem.The chapter on reaction mechanisms is excellant, it actually is better than most primers developed in explaining this concept (i.e. Jacobs). However, the organization and the concentration of information within chapters may be daunting to individuals who havent had enough experience in general chemistry. Principles of structure and reactivity are assumed knowledge. Organic chemistry in most universities are taken by biology and chemistry majors. FOr individuals who are only doing one unit of organic chemistry; I would suggest you look elsewhere. A substitute (a less difficult but equally comprehensive textbook for people lacking experience in chemistry) is Hornback's which is renowned for its lucid mechanistic explantion of organic chemistry.