A recent Dallas Morning News column profiling T.D. Jakes quoted a University of Houston sociology professor saying that Jakes is "incredible in how he's able to diagnose people's pain.  He has an uncanny ability to put a finger on the human condition." Jakes' new book He-Motions illustrates the verity of the professor's statement.  In He-Motions, Jakes nails the issues and challenges Christian men face today in trying to fulfill their many roles and pursue their dreams.	Jakes writes from his heart and soul as a pastor, father, husband and entrepreneur.  In the opening pages, he describes his motivation for writing: "I want to share what I've learned.  I want to cut through so much of the junk imposed on men today and talk heart to heart about what it means to be a man, not in some touchy-feely group hug kind of way but in an honest, soul-bearing way, which also respects men and honors the women who love them and whom they love."	Jakes thoroughly succeeds in fulfilling his desire for this book.  Not only does he address male readers, but he also targets female readers who hope to gain insights about men.  Jakes' no-holds barred writing offers refreshing candor for those wanting an honest assessment of who they are and where they are in life.	Jakes writes about his childhood, his ministry, his family and his ups and downs in life-always tying stories to life lessons for readers.  It does not take the reader long to discern that Jakes possesses a vast breadth of wisdom and understanding about the inner workings of men in our culture.	Jakes writes that "a man must value himself."  He-Motions can help readers make great strides in finding value in themselves-regardless of their circumstances.  He encourages men to refuse to become discouraged but to keep moving toward their destiny while simultaneously enjoying the splendid moments of life's journey.		The book is written as if Jakes is in the room having a one-on-one talk with the reader.  If it was in fact such a talk, it would surely involve laughing, weeping, praying and dreaming.   One such example of the conversational style is when Jakes writes about balancing family and career.	He writes, "I'm here to tell you that if you don't contain your work life and segregate it from your home life, then your career will consume the marriage like a campfire blazing outside of its circle of rocks and roaring into a life-threatening forest fire."	There is not an area of discussion where Jakes lets men off the hook.  He writes authoritatively about power, money and sex.  In the financial arena, Jakes commands readers, "Stop asking God to bless an area where you refuse to obey His Word for your life." 	In one relationship area after another, Jakes' writing leads the reader to self-examination, awareness, forgiveness and improvement.  His writing on subjects such as a man's relationships with his father, children, wife, other men, time, money and God is honest and down to earth.  It is also practical, as are the questions for men and women at the end of each chapter.  Throughout the book, Jakes references the life of David to shed light on the above relationships from a Biblical perspective.	Jakes encourages readers that "someone needs to know who you are and where you are at all times in your walk and life."  This book could be an effective tool to use in a discussion or accountability group to help people grow stronger relationships.   I encourage men and women to take advantage of the wisdom and insights Jakes shares in this book