Let me first say that once upon a time I liked Larry The Cable Guy.  After reading this book, I now think he is one step above slime. To be fair, some jokes ARE funny and some stories ARE enjoyable and amusing.He is anti-PC which is totally fine with me and even goes as far to pick on some appropriate targets like Rosie O'Donnell, Michael Moore, Barney Frank, Barbara Streisand, and "that fat girl from the Dixie Chicks", among others.  No problem there in my opinion. That is the entirety of the positive things I can say about the book.The rest is just babble, often repeated over and over again, that even Larry lovers will find annoying.  A couple things that really bothered me.  The first is his constant and unrelenting picking on and making jokes at the expense of "retards" and Down's Syndrome children.  He must use the term "retard" at least fifty+ times in the book.  This is appreciably different than making a joke about, say, Michael Moore.  Moore made the decisions and taken the actions in his life to make him an apt target for jokes.  The Down's Syndrome children did not. My opinion of Larry The Cable Guy dropped to zero or below after reading his attack on "retards".  He also racially sterotypes in the book.  Many of these jokes can be funny if taken in context and at least those people can respond.  The Down's Syndrome kids can't.  Larry, I can only hope God (in whom you so mightly believe in according to your book) grants you a "retard" child to love and care for.  Then, I would like to read your next book. I suspect you would gain some sorely needed wisdom very quickly.The second theme in the book that came through loud and clear is that Larry is a fraud in many senses.  He plays the good 'ol Bubba. He ain't too bright and he ain't ever changed since he left the farm.  His "celebrity" - his word not mine - has not gone to his head. OK, Larry. Why then the better than thou tone throughout the book - including speeches and lectures, including serious topics such as abortion?  Why do virtually every one of your stories and jokes involve putting someone else down?  Why the unrelenting references to your "celebrity"?  The terms "meet and greet" and "after-party" were used over and over and over, as an example.  Do you really think your fans have ever been to one of these events or even know what they are?  Well, you are wrong.  They are mentioned constantly to remind everyone how big of a star you have become.  That's Hollywood-speak my country, fart loving, nose picking friend.Overall, this book is a true disappointment and Larry The Cable Guy is a true moron (see doesn't that sound better than "retard").  My Father always taught me there are two types of dumb people.  Those who are dumb and know they are dumb.  And those who are dumb but are so dumb, they don't realize it.  The former category usually shuts up (knowing they are dumb).  The latter category normally rambles on and on like some drunk in the gutter. The first group is obviously smarter than the second.Larry The Cable Guy falls smack dab in the last group.  The fact that he has stumbled into some sense of success is fueling his rambling and babbles in this book. Make jokes, Larry, and forget about your opinions on say abortion and the like.Unfortunately, Larry can't see the obvious.  Like virtually every celebrity he cites and makes fun of in the book, he has become exactly one of them.  A thin layer of "Good 'Ol Boy" on top, covering a core of venom and "celebrity". He plays the role pretty good until one gets under the sheets.My suggestion: Don't buy Larry's act and, by all means, don't buy the book. 