I will not try to say that I asserted the painstaking, analytic effort that some would argue is necessary for an appreciation of Heidegger. More than that, I have no interest in doing so. It is largely agreed by the majority of his readers that this book deals with the question of being (existence), and my reading didn't lead me to any other conclusions. So as I said I have no interest in reading this a second time, further, deeper, or slower.Being and Time is chock full of invented terminology, to the extent that Michael Inwood was able to profit from his publication of A Heidegger Dictionary. Whatever you might think the word "world" means, for instance, is not what Heidegger means, and he will explain that to you throughout the duration of an agonizing 40 pages or so. This is the case with his entire vocabulary. If there was any need for all of the inventions and distinctions made by Heidegger, I would not bring this up as a crticism.Beyond the unventilated, severely sober, and utterly uninspiring character of Being in Time, I also call attention to the futility of it's project. If Heidegger was right about the historical neglect toward the question of being, perhaps more than 2000 years of historical peoples have been aware of something that eluded him: that there is no question of being. Why is "the question of being" so problematic? Because it is unanswerable, maybe. Or if it is answerable, we're not in any position to answer it. "Being" implies some kind of unvarying stability that just doesn't make sense. And if you posit an idea that is so concrete, so constant, you can't just bend it to make it fit reality. You've already betrayed your questioning. Truth, including the truth of being, is a local phenomenon. Truth is not always and forever true - it's true when it's true. But Heidegger wanted an everlasting truth, a dogmatic anthropology.Worse than the general uselessness of his project, and the toxic dregs left in his wake, Heidegger is guilty of not even presenting his ideas in an intersting or thought-provoking way