Dr. Hawkins first book, Power vs Force was interesting and presented a useful way to dowse using kinesiology.  However, he began to venture into misapplication of this method, and has now gone off on a tangent where he seems to wish to delude himself into thinking he has developed a fool-proof way to judge the level of consciousness of any entity, concept, or construct and the truth or falsehood of any statement.  There are serious logical, philosophical, and practical flaws in his work, and his attempt to quantify matters that aren't quantifiable leads to meaningless data that probably matches the bias & beliefs of those carrying out the muscle tests.  This book is a good example to present to show how people can deceive themselves and misuse muscle testing and dowsing techniques.  The actual technique is worthwhile, but much of what Hawkins presents in the book is utterly meaningless and invalid.  The levels of awareness that can be tapped into with dowsing are wise enough to NOT let us ask just anything we wish to and be able to receive accurate, valid answers.  Hawkins explores issues about media, politics, religion, spirituality, history, philosophies, healing arts, entertainment, and more, and reveals his own gross ignorance on many matters.He seems unaware that many of the people he trusts in politics and media are professional gangsters, liars, and two-faced sociopaths.  He has a negative view of conspiracy theorists, many of whom are genuinely determined to find the truth and don't resort to Hawkins' misguided shortcut attempt to identify truth.  Hawkins also fosters confusion with his description of his muscle test method, as it really has little to do with applied kinesiology, but is a form of dowsing where the muscle is directed to remain weak or strong in lieu of muscle response moving a pendulum or rod.  I hope Hawkins gets to reconsider his current efforts...consciousness and spiritual research are vital endeavors and there are others doing useful, responsible work in those areas.  For now I'd encourage Hawkins to recognize that 911 was in part an inside job, many conservative politicians and pundits are corrupt frauds, and the overall maturity of consciousness in America is not greater than the rest of the world