As a dad, I was really looking forward to a book on potty training to help me with my 2-year old. This book is lousy though. Why?1. Stupid Writing. I got pretty sick of constantly reading all the sappy, "witty" remarks. "Dancing the Potty Mambo"? Give me a break!2. Stupid Advice. This book keeps telling you to talk to your kid like he/she is an adult. I'm sorry, but a 2-year-old just cannot comprehend a long drawn-out explanation of why you want them or don't want them to do something. How about just saying, "Don't do that!" or "Hey, you want to try this?" That seems to work just fine for me. Why give your kid a doctoral dissertation every time you want them to do something? What's wrong with just telling your kid what to do (nicely), and expecting them to be obedient? 3. Repeating Content. This book kept repeating itself OVER and OVER. Okay, I got it already! I strongly feel that the author wanted to push this book over the 200-page mark when all that needed to be said could probably have been accomplished in about 50 pages (or less).4. Too Many References. This book constantly refers to other chapters. I once counted 6 different references to other chapters on one page. I am not kidding! Huh? Is potty training really that freakin' complicated? All I want is some general ideas on how to go about it, how to get started, and a few good tips. I don't need all these detailed references. (Nor do I need the phrase "Potty Mambo" repeated to me ad infinitum.)Here is all I wanted to know:-How do I get started?-What do I do?-How often do I need to try it?-Should I go for pullups or just keep him in diapers for the moment?Maybe this book got to all of that, but I quit after page 60. I just couldn't take it anymore. After hearing the phrases "Stay Positive" and "Potty Mambo" repeated to me for the umpteenth time, I had to quit. I returned this book and got my money back.If I were to say anything good about this book, I would say that it has a few good tips, surrounded by about 180 pages of filler.Potty training still looms ahead. Will I be successful? Probably. But to this book I say, No Thanks