From the cover and a quick glances at some of the colorful photo filled chapters, this book seem promising at first. But the cliched saying of never judge a book by its cover has taken its toll. This book provides marginal advice on how to -potentially- make a profit from the wonderful world of digital photography, however, it fails to give any real world working model on how this can be accomplished. Most of the marginally useful advices and sales model, i.e. pricing structure on stock photos, are based on the author's own personal preference and experience, rather than taking into account the wide breadth of pricing methods that exist in the real world of photography.This is a great book for amateurs that are trying to break into the business of selling their prints from an outline or a strict table-of-content perspective of the available methods and channels of distribution to target, e.g. card stock, stock photo, art fairs, etc. Most of topics cover seem to be more 'theoretical' than actual real-world hands down information and the author seems to expend more time, energy and care in expressing his disdain (with a condescending overtone, might I add) toward enthusiastic amateurs that aim to make it big and quick. His favorite recurring adjectives for such amateurs includes, but certainly are not limited to: prima donnas, pretentious, and pretend aficionado. Heller may be a [self-aggrandizing] professional photographer, but anyone with such high caliber should be more helpful, than pompous or supercilious. Remember Heller, you were an amateur at one point too.Further more, Heller likes to take a seemingly interesting idea, get your hopes up and then tell you why you shouldn't pursue it because the odds are just too high against you.Bottomline: If you are serious about licensing your photographs for use, then this book does not really cover the core foundations that you need to get your feet wet. On the otherhand, if you want to take a look at what you can do to -potentially- make a profit from your hobby, then this book basically gives you an -general- idea.I'd give this book a 1-star for the lack of usable information and the author's cockiness, but it does contain some interesting theories and sales model to warrant a 2-star rating