This is the sort of book for paranoid people addicted to conspiracy theories. They would rather believe a fanciful lie than the mundane truth.Though I don't agree with most of what's written in this book, I don't regret buying it. It teaches me how to con ignorant people with high tech jargon and conspiracy theories. If people BELIEVE that amalgams or metal restorations are the cause of their headaches, fatigue or whatever symptoms, then removing them will definitely cure them. That's how faith healing works.The only reason why I don't use amalgam in my practice is because I do cosmetic dentistry. If the patient does not mind the colour, amalgam is definitely a superior direct filling material for Class 2 and subgingival preps. I have absolutely no qualms about having that done for myself.Toxicity? Sure, some people are affected by amalgams and anything can be toxic to somebody, but let's not forget that these cases are extremely rare (perhaps less than 10 on this planet and most of them would be Chinese). There are literally thousands of tests and studies establishing amalgams as safe filling materials over the last 100 years. There are numerous studies that show how safe amalgams are. If Dr Breiner has been to Asia where we have much healthier diets and lifestyles, he may notice that we also have many healthy 70 to 90-year-old Asian men and women who have gold and amalgam-filled teeth in their mouths.Are composites totally safe? The incidence of allergic reactions to composites (very low) is higher than that of amalgam toxicity. This is something the author failed to inform us. All his anecdotal evidence are almost laughable as they are not supported by independent studies and sceptical parties. Not one case he mentioned can be conclusively attributed to amalgam. Mercury can be very toxic, but after tituration and amalgamation, the metal remains in the solid state and is not absorbed by the body. It's different from inhaling mercury vapour daily, injecting or ingesting mercury or mercuric compounds.At the end of the day, propagating such beliefs will only spark panic, paranoia and various psychosomatic "illnesses". Following Breiner's protocols for "detox", patients will only be paying a fortune for otherwise very simple dental work. Gosh, with so many gullible patients in America, I should probably move my practice to America and start doing amalgam detox instead of honing my skills for cutting crowns, bridges and sinking implants