It doesn't sound like the people you list as reasons "not" to read this book, actually read "this" book. There is a big difference, in my opinion, of putting positive affirmations in your mind, versus a witch doctor. And quite honestly, it seems the positive affirmations could and should be used in "conjuction" with medical care. Does it say anywhere in the book to forego medical care, because you will most definitely be healed? No where. So in my opinion, one has to have a "sound" mind, and not view the book as a "cure all" for all the ills in life, but rather a positive way to "enhance" your life. It is just plain stupid to to avoid getting medical care, when you have a terminal illness, or any other illness for that matter. But according to what I gather from the book, you CAN use positive affirmations, and "believe" that you are getting well, to help keep yourself in a positive state, rather than filling your head with negative thinking that you will never get well. Studies aside from this book have PROVEN that a healthy and positive attitude and mental outlook, have done wonders for recovering patients, along with their medical care. Your review did not address any of those people that read this book, because the two examples of people you list, it is apparent they didn't read the book either, (not sure what compelled you to post here?) therefore you are not qualified, in my opinion, to critique this book, as they were using apparently some form of faith healing from a televangelist, did they prescribe drinking snakes blood, too? Anyway, this book in no way says to forgo medical treatment if you are sick, and those that do, probably won't be addressing their medical problem. Can the positive affirmations and power of suggestion help you through your medical crisis? I imagine it can, (studies prove it can) in addition to proper medical treatment. Anyway, you might want to actually read the book, instead of making comments of what happened to "so and so" who didn't even read it or apply it, including yourself.