This story drew me in at once because of the strong voice and the good writing. It clearly establishes a sense of time and place (modern day Madison, Wisconsin) and offers the "promise" of an intimate look at daily life during the last stages of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) from the perspective of a personal caregiver. While we learn to understand the struggles of the patient, Kate, this is more about the struggles of a college student known as "Bec," as she travels an emotional path of coming into her own. Author, Michelle Wildgen, fulfills the promise.This story is character-driven, and what made me turn the pages wasn't the story, which was, at times, a bit slow and uninspiring. With the exception of the "blue butterfly," the additional sex scenes felt extraneous. Further, one can guess from the beginning that in terms of Kate's condition, there wouldn't be a `happy' ending. Regardless, Wildgen paints a very realistic picture of ALS, and definitely puts you in the room. What made me turn the pages was Wildgen's ability to make each of her characters come alive. I cared about them and wanted to see how they'd handle Kate's progressive and ultimate demise.Bec is the narrator who learns as she goes (both how to take care of Kate and how to cook for her guests/staff/family). We see everything through her eyes, particularly as she becomes Kate's voice. The title, "You're Not You," comes from Kate, as she asks Bec to speak for her in a manner beyond mere translation. The secondary characters are also well developed, including Kate's husband, Evan, Bec's roommate, Jill, and to a lesser degree, Bec's lover, Liam. Liam, a married faculty member, represents another dimension of Bec's floundering, and her search to, in a sense, pick a major. Ultimately, the story becomes a vehicle for Bec's eventual direction of career choice.I recommend as a thought provoking read, and for the strong writing and character development. Additionally, if you know (or have known) someone with ALS, I believe you'll appreciate the author's knowledge and sensitivity.From the author of "A Line Between Friends," McKenna Publishing Group