Seventeen-year-old Catherine Morland has always been preoccupied with three very important things: dancing, dressing, and reading sensational novels. But doing these things won't get you a husband, or acquaint you with other young ladies, such as yourself. So, upon request from a neighbor, Catherine is invited to spend some time in Bath - a fashionable town, where Catherine will have the opportunity to interact with people of her own age and stature, who are not related to her. And that is where the naive Catherine meets up with the Thorpe family. Quickly becoming friends with Isabella Thorpe, Catherine begins spending much of her time with the illustrious, yet conniving family. And it is only when Catherine is rescued by Henry Tilney, along with his charming sister, Eleanor, and whisked off to their ancestral home, known only as Northanger Abbey. There, Catherine's choice of reading material - mysteries and ghost stories, that is - comes back to haunt her; for Northanger Abbey is victim to terrible noises in the night - such as creaking, and frightening winds, that leave Catherine feeling as if she is residing in a haunted place herself. The fact that the enormous house is filled with various locked doors, and a curious history only heightens young Catherine's suspicions, and makes her question what mystery and secrets are lurking within Northanger Abbey, and the Tilney family, in general.Jane Austen has been a favorite of mine since I was very young, but it was not until this past weekend that I happened upon NORTHANGER ABBEY while browsing through the bookstore, and decided to purchase it. I will admit that, hands down, this has become one of my favorite Austen books. Catherine is an enchanting character, whose innocence, and naivete make her charming from beginning to end; while her overactive imagination leaves the reader chuckling in delight at the many crazy notions she creates within that bright head of hers. Catherine's interactions with Isabella Thorpe, and the rest of the Thorpe family are intrepid, and truly make you feel strong emotion towards those particular characters; while the charming Henry Tilney - like Mr. Darcy - makes you root for a romance to blossom between our dashing businessman, and our young heroine. A wonderful, satirical piece of fiction, that should certainly be discovered by anyone who calls themselves an Austen fan.Erika SoroccoBook Review Columnist for The Community Bugle Newspape