According to Charles Kimball, religion is the most powerful and pervasive force on earth.  Religion inspires humans to transcend their self-interests, while at the same time, more evil has been committed in the name of religion than any other human institution.  Using a comparative religious approach, Kimball uncovers five warning signs that increase the likelihood of a religion becoming unhealthy or evil.Kimball argues the word `religion' is amorphous and difficult to define.  As a result, the author believes a comparative religious methodology is necessary, one that sees the similarities and interconnectedness of all religions.  Kimball, next, asks if religion is the cause of evil, and he answers both yes and no.  A religion that is arrogant, condescending, and requires adherents to "disconnect their brain" is problematic.  On the other hand, religion opens up humanity to a universe of purpose and beauty and teaches how to live meaningful and moral lives as individuals and in community.  Kimball seeks to discover the signs that increase the likelihood of religion becoming evil.  The first warning sign that religion is displaying tendencies towards evil is the belief and adherence to absolute truth claims.  When conceptualizations of God are held with certainty and rigid doctrine, the propensity towards evil increases dramatically.   Sacred texts, sources of wisdom and guidance, become abused when selective readings of the text are used to reinforce these absolute truth claims.  Christianity and Islam have missionary mandates, but these become imperialistic when conversion is forced because of absolute truth claims.  Kimball argues for a "human view of truth", one that is dynamic and relational, allowing adherents to affirm truth without solidifying truth claims into absolute propositions.Another pivotal point when religion becomes evil is blind obedience: when adherents abdicate personal responsibility to religious authorities.  When a charismatic leader demands total obedience, has unrestricted power, and has total control, religion is unhealthy.  Uncritical acceptance of doctrine is also unhealthy, as authentic religion encourages questions and reflection.  Strict segregation from the larger society, combined with a leader with unlimited power is dangerous.  Kimball asserts that religious inquiry and freedom of thought are necessary for responsible religious adherence.Every religious tradition believes that something is awry on earth, while some believe that an ideal time will arrive in the future.  When adherents believe they can speak for God and wish to usher in this time, the likelihood for disaster increases.  Many Muslims embrace the hope for an all Islamic society, zealous Jewish settlers dream of a time when Israel will be returned to its divinely promised status, and the Christian Religious Right believe that America should be politically structured with Christian principles in mind.  Kimball opines those who narrowly define temporal structures of the state and those who believe they are God's agents to usher in a theocracy are dangerous.Religion also becomes a force for evil when the ends justify any means: when one theological component gets elevated, thus becoming an end, and adherents become consumed with achieving or protecting this end.  All religions have notions of sacred space, but an unhealthy religion becomes obsessed with protecting this space.  Reinforcing or protecting group identity against an `other', or protecting group identity from within the group, are also potentially dangerous signs.  Institutional structures develop in all religious traditions, but corruption occurs when the protection of the institution becomes the end.  Kimball asserts that a healthy religion preserves the connection between means and ends.The last warning sign occurs when religious leaders believe their struggle is a "holy" war.  Kimball outlines the history of pacifism to the just war theory and crusader ideals within Christianity, and he shows how each of these views were represented in the Gulf War of 1990-91.  Islam is a peaceful religion, which asks adherents to build a just and peaceful social order.  The word jihad means "struggling in the way of God," but in a narrower sense jihad is understood as a struggle in a military sense - with rules similar to the Christian just war theory.  Because of socio-economic disparities, some Muslims openly advocate violent means to achieve revolutionary ends, and some leaders declare this revolution as a holy war in order to legitimize their cause.  Kimball believes both that Christian and Muslim adherents should not speak of war but of peace and that the call for holy war is not holy.With the knowledge of when religion becomes evil, religions have a clear understanding of healthy praxis.  Faith, hope, and love should be the guiding spiritual compass for all religious adherents, so that in times of conflict unhealthy religious mechanisms can be averted.  Against secularism, Kimball finds validity in religious traditions because of the time-tested wisdom and ethical standards, and he believes that religions should embrace religious diversity.  With religious diversity Christians have three options, exclusivism, inclusivism, and pluralism, but Kimball believes each position has value if adherents from different faiths work together for the common good of humanity. Finally, the Middle East represents a microcosm for the world community: if peaceable solutions are not found in the Arab-Israeli-Palestinian conflict, then the future for the world community and world religions are bleak