The book is not 'really' on Christ in the Etheric, but more several - "unrelated" - lectures about Etheric Life. Sometimes Christ only gets mentioned at the very end of a lecture.The book can be summed up as an accumalation of lectures of "cosmic life" if you like: the spiritual life that is connected with, and influences, life as seen only from/with physical senses. In the book is recorded about several "ages" (Golden Age, Silver Age, Iron Age and Dark Age), and that how in each age clairvoyant abilities - [or really spiritual consciousness] - diminished with each age, and that the Dark Age has ended in 1899AC and that in this current Age people need to become spiritually aware again to the point where they have a "Damascus experience" (experience of Saul - later Paul - in which he saw Christ in Etheric form).People who do not become spiritually aware will be bound into the Earth consciousness/sphere and could cause disturbances in the Earth.In this light, Rudolf Steiner communicated about the brotherhoods - in Western and Eastern countries - and how they try to prevent people from developing spiritually to the point where they will be able to meet Christ in the Etheric (= 2nd coming of Christ (coming in the Etheric)... and in future times coming of Christ (i.e. manifestation/presence of Christ in the astral)).In the book is also recorded about the Sermon on the Mount - with the Beautitudes (recorded in Matthew 5) where Jesus communicated about the development of the soul (as recorded in other books by Rudolf Steiner (sentient soul, intellectual soul, etc.)). In the book is also recorded about "the afterlife" if you like: life of souls who have passed away and are still Earthbound, and how those souls are connected to those souls that are incarnated in a physical body in Earth.In the book is communicated about different levels in the 'afterlife' and how feelings and will are active. It is recorded about astral plane, lower devachan and higher devachan in "Etherization of the Blood" and later on again in "Three Realms between Death and Rebirth" where is recorded in greater detail how activity in those realms is connected with life of souls incarnated in the Earth and how Christ is also present there and can be experienced in Earthly life as 'destiny'... and how people are so focused on what is, or has happened, but don't pay attention to what is result of it not happening (e.g. getting delayed for an appointment, or coming ('unexpectedly') too early etc.). Destiny is at work, with Christ having its workings present in it according to Rudolf Steiner.In the book is also located about "the double" and how forces from within the Earth influence it [geo-biology]. Ireland was a place where those influences where most 'healthy' for spiritual development/cognition and Ireland was the place where Christianity was able to flourish and waver out from to Europe by Irish monks