Peter Balakian's book, "Black Dog of Fate," tries to be too many thingsand sadly fails at many of them. In essence, it is an attempt to tell a sort of Armenian-American story which I find not overly interesting or compelling. I wish the author had done a bit more in-depth work to learn about his people and their rich heritage before embarking to represent itor explain it or share it with non-Armenians, for he has much more to absorband understand himself first. I find the Armenianness in this book to be tentative, unengaged and unconvincing. Pity, since the author seems to have a lot of passion in his pursuit of other aspects of his life such as football, the Yankees, modern poetry, and exposing Turkish attempts tobuy (among others) Princeton professors to act as mouthpieces givinglegitimacy to their vile historical revisionism, practiced by the "modern" Turkish state and its organs.It seems to be all the rage these days to elevate personal histories and family testimonials into the realm of fiction and novels. The "I" and "we" and "us" occupy center stage and the reader is invited to enjoy the intimacy that must surely be in place via this artifice. But is it realy?Since in order to make this legitimate, the writer must distance himself,at least initially, from all this old world exotica, and like the reader,question their validity or relevance in present day North American society. What are all these old world, old fashioned ghosts and traditions?, is the first cry of writer and reader alike, only, ofcourse, to be followed by a sharp bank turn where the writer steers the satisfied and in-placereader towards the opposite viewpoint wherein *this* culture and *this*lifestyle become suspect in light of some tentative spotting of cultural wealth that has been traded in or abandoned in order to swim swiftly towards materialistic, memory-free, self-redefining, "comfort" seeking and buying mores.In the Balakian tale, one encounters suburbia instead of substance, worldly goods acquisition instead of deep roots that steady the soul, immediate family and relatives running away from their true identities eithertowards surrealism, the abstract and unemotional, or else towards medicine,respectability and detachment. Young Balakian observes but neverunderstands "the grandmother" for she is shielded culturally from beingable to reach him by her very offsprings who can not and will not instillthe Armenian identity he will eventually seek but never quite find. Theircrime is self-denial and a march to the tune of America's mixmasterpiper. "Be unlike your past and your future will be brighter," seems to be what America promises, at the very least. The intermediate generation listensand adopts this credo and Peter is left to find out but never quiteunderstand just what cost his ancestors have paid to remain Armenian andto preserve our culture before the final denials on New Jersey pateos whileenjoying, as if to serve sweet irony, full course Armenian meals and themixing aromas of delicacies from the old country every Sunday.Peter is lost alright, but as the book sadly shows, he remains lost.Paraphrasing or quoting Ambassador Morgenthau does not an Armenian genocideexpert make. Personal family testimonials of the Turkish atrocities doesnot a genocide history make (For that, read Vahakn Dadrian's "The History of the Armenian Genocide"  Berghahn Books, 1995). Episodic accounts can be dismissed by the Turks as hear-say and as mere isolated incidents, leading to more harm than good (for if better evidence existed, the arguement goes, why would anyone resort to such flimsy fare?). For the story to haveworked, for the story to have *really* worked, as I would have liked it to,Balakian's life and lifestyle would have had to have changedsignificantly and his child rearing practices would have had to reflect it, and his relationship with his wife who, like him, is not leading a stronglyArmenian existence, would have had to have changed, solidifying his roots,celebrating his new found identity, and nurturing the metamorphosis bysustained community involvment and grass roots movement participationwhich, alas, never appear on the pages of this book. How else to explainthe lack of a turning around of the tide of assimilation to which Balakianis a grand personal witness, except that the transition has not occured?The ship of Armenianness sails by Balakian. He is finally aware enough tobe able to identify the ship and wave it goodbye and write about it, butnot resolved enough to climb aboard. That is how the book fails and that ishow his story fails. This is a story of assimilation and loss with a bit ofmid stream self awareness thrown in. For a real story of an Armenianfinding his roots and letting them take root in his own life and future,read Mark Arax's book, "In my Father's Name (Simon & Schuster, 1996),"where the transition is real and the early youth of disaffection isreplaced by a profound adoption of our essence revealed in exquisitefrankness and power by Mark Arax. One can only hope that Balakian'spartial reorientation towards our culture and traditions and essence will somehow continue and that some day he will wish to live with a more meaningfulattachment to our cause and needs than merely as an able observer (notwithstanding his laudible actions as an April 24th -- Armenian genocidecommemoration speaker and an exposer of Turkish infiltration in the USacademic arena by buying spokesmen turned professors who mascarade asunbiased researchers). This criticism I direct to the predecessor of thisgenre of American Armenian writing first and to Balakian second. I speakhere of "passage to Ararat" by Michael Arlen (Hungry Mind republication,1996) where a disinterested soit-disant Armenian goes to Armenia in the70's and by the end of the short trip is somewhat more closely touched bythis strange people's woes and dreams. Too little, too late, and alwaysdetached, is all I can say to these meagre displays of ethnic or culturalreorientation. Much more needs to be absorbed before the essence istransmitted to future generations to take and behold.However, I remain hopeful that future transformatory stories and ethnicidentity survival stories *will be* written which will show that the tideof assimilation and cultural abandonment are not the only outcome of thisexperiment of transplanting peoples and cultures to this continent weproudly call our home