We have now entered a second time of deep concern for the science, math, and technological education for everyone. The first one occurred after the Sputnik fiasco, when the Russians beat us in the race to reach space. The  concern now has risen due to what science groups such as the American  Association for the Advancement of Science, and educators saw in comparison  of assessments made of students in the U.S. and those in other developed  countries, such as Japan. The answer to this concern was for the AAAS along  with other groups to put out a guideline as to what constitutes scientific  literacy, and what the public in the U.S. should at least know to be  scientifically literate. As usual, though the AAAS addressed the fact that  certain groups in the U.S. were not being 'included' in the pursuit of  science literacy, such as women and racial minorities, in this their first  book they skipped over those of us with disabilities. Since this is a major  concern of mine and the area in which I do research, I was appalled to see  they neglected 'us' once again, especially as the AAAS has a separate  department dealing with the Disabled/Deaf.  In spite of this mistake, the  writing of this book has laid the groundwork for universities and colleges  as to what the teachers they train should know and be able to teach so that  our country can be more scientifically literate. With new information being  made available through newspapers and the Internet on a daily basis, it is  absolutely imperative that all adults regardless of race, gender, or  ability be able to glean the information they need from this outpouring of  information to make decisions requiring informed consent in health care,  decisions on employment (since health care is one of the top employers in  the U.S. today), and to teach their children. This book was the beginning,  but it isn't the end. More books have further elucidated what is required  for science literacy from both the AAAS and other science groups. This is  the place to start if you are an educator of any kind who wants their  students to become scientifically literate. Karen Sadler, Science  Education, University of Pittsburgh, klsst23@pitt.ed