  For over three years I've been studying Buddhism and Zen. During that time I've ordered many books within the different Buddhist schools. There are many fine authors out there that explain the tenets and fine workings of Buddhism as well as Zen. I believe a solid background in Buddhism background is essential in understanding Buddha's message to mankind. However, the true "nuts and bolts" of Buddhism practice can be found most directly in Zen.   It is one thing to know something about a religion or way of life yet it is another to be able to apply it. Ezra Bayda has most succinctly given the best instruction of how to apply Zen to one's life where we need it the most; during those moments when we are gripped with our core pain. Core pain is comprised of our anger, traumas, sadness, feelings of inferiority, etc. It is this core pain that can make our life a living hell. Ezra examines these emotions and teaches us how we can mindfully learn to transform them in a way that truly works. Instead of denying them or trying to escape them we learn that they are part of our path in life. And while it takes courage to be present with these emotions we learn that they are but old programs and often ancient belief systems that take us away from the genuine life we all deserve.   At least one reader has referred to this as being like a self-help book. Yet anytime we look for truth whether it be in religion or psychology, aren't we looking for something to help us. Ezra offers us the tools to achieve transformation in our life. When I ordered this book I had hoped it would teach me how to truly apply Zen teachings to my life. What I didn't realize is that the information this book contains would exceed anything I have read in any religious book, psychology book, or college text. Another reviewer said "Where's the Zen" in reference to the contents of this book. "The Zen" is there on every page. While Ezra doesn't use the esoteric style of writing common in Zen/Buddhist teaching, his simple clearcut way of communication exemplifies the simpleness that Zen is truly about.   Ezra's other two books "At Home in the Muddy Water" and "Saying Yes to Life" are excellent as well and deepen your understanding of living mindfully and in the moment. A helpful hint, read his three books in chronological order with this book first. Personally, I think that reading them in order adds to a person's understanding and that each book acts like a foundation for the next. Ezra Bayda I have not had the honor of meeting you personally yet I thank you most sincerely for the gift of your writings. I bow to you for you are a Master! There are many of us I'm sure that are looking forward to your future works.   Two other excellent Zen books that teach mindful living and dealing with difficult emotions are "Beginning Mindfulness: Learning the Way of Awareness" by Andrew Weiss and "At Hell's Gate : A Soldier's Journey" by Claude Anshin Thomas. Also, the writing's of Thich Nhat Hanh, a great man who highly influenced both of these authors, teaches the art of mindful living in a very understandable manner. Good luck to you on the path.