This book reveiw is on a book named Last Summer with Maizon.  This book is about two best friends named Margarate and Maizon who lives on Madison Street.  Her friend Maizon was accepted to Blue Hills, a school where really educated people go.  Margarate does not want them to be separated.  Every night she wishes Maizon will not get accepted.  But when Margarate's father has a second heart attack, he dies and now all Margarate has is Maizon, her mother, her little brother Jay and the people around.  Margarete was having a rough time anyway and then Maizon got accepted to Blue Hills.  When it was time for Maizon to leave Margarate, her mother and Maizon's grandmother dropped her off.  When Maizon wasn't there with Margarate her whole life changed.  At school she was becoming popular, she was liked now.  Days passed by and Maizon still didn't call.  When Margarate went to go get her brother at her neighbors house, that's when Maizon calls.  Margarate was so excited that Maizon wanted to come home.  Margarate ran to the grandmother's house telling her the news.  Margarate said Maizon wants to come home, the grandmother says that she would go get her.  When Maizon got home it was like old times, they ran into each others arms.  They then went to their favorite spot and started talking.  Maizon said she came back because she wasn't being treated right, she didn't feel the same. So they sat there and talked and felt like old times with my best friend Maizon.  I think that this book should have gotten an award or five stars.  This book has mostly everything of real life.  It deals with best friends, for example like my friendship with Kiena.  It has separation, like my sister and me.  It has a lost loved one like my godfather and it has a lesson like when you do wrong and learn your lesson.  I think that this book should have five stars because it really relates to real life,it shows friendship and it shows and explains what happens in real life.  I like this book because it reminds me of my life, me and my friends, how we argue and lose our friendship and then gain it back with a little talking.  It reminds me of how I lose people in my family and then cry because I miss them.  If I could buy this book, I would let my whole family read it, I would make it our reference book for when we need advice or something to do.  This book is so good that all my friends wanted to read it.  It is so good that I really read it because I don't really read books and when I read the book it made me think of when my best friend Ariel was going to move and how it made me feel, and how I compare it to Margarate and Maizon.  This book is excellent, the author really put their heart in it and that they were depressed and needed a friend.  If you ask my best friend Johnniece, she'll say that she really enjoyed the book, that it should get five stars, because the author really put thought, confidence, respect, love, care and her whole heart into this book.  When I say she put confidence in this book I meant that she wrote it knowning that it will be a hit.  The author thought about the words, thought her life and compared it and started writing it with compassion.  I think that this book should be the book of the month in my school, because it shows and teaches a lesson.  With the summary I wrote I put my heart in it because when I read it, it touched my heart.  I won't want my friend away from me.  I think that I mostly relate to Maizon, because when she left Margarte was beginning to be liked, and the girl was talking about Maizon and Margarte sat there and watched and listened instead of doing the right thing and telling them to stop doing that to their friend.  I relate to Maizon, I relate to her because if people don't like me, I don't care.  If people want me out of somewhere, then I'll leave and if people love me, I love them back and that's how Maizon is.  She doesn't take junk.  Alot of people relate to Maizon.  This book is interesting and gets interesting as you read on.  This book is really a good book that shows you friendship, break-up and everything else that deals with real life.  I love this book, it is really good and I think that if most people had this book then they wouldn't be out doing the stupid and illegal things that they are doing.  This book really didn't grasp Dr. Kings dream because when Maizon went to Blue Hills, the whites were treating her bad, they saw her different.  Brenliniqua, Class 7-512