Though only a fraction of books have been written about the Great War when compared to WWII, there are some great ones to pick from. For instance, for a great narrative of the American involvement in World War I, try The Doughboys by Gary Mead. For a good look at the events of Gallipoli, just last year John Laffin wrote The Agony of Gallipoli, which is a wonderful brief book on that travesty of warfare. There is a great book which chronicles Verdun called The Price of Glory by Alistair Horne. The list goes on and on, whether it be Flanders, the Somme, Passchendaele, Africa, Jutland, whatever your area of interest might be. The point I'm making is, there are plenty of specialized accounts of World War I, and even several overviews of the war, but John Keegan's THE FIRST WORLD WAR, is a great source for an overall study of the war. This book covers it all, in brief detail. Accounts are given on virtually every facet of the war and even some of the best insight available for the events which led up to the war itself. Every aspect of the war is given its due diligence here. I've never been a big fan of Keegan. His writing, to me, is a struggle at times. This book is no exception. It reads somewhat like a 500 page textbook and borders on tedious at times. But as much as I dislike his stuffy British writing style, he is a virtual historical genius. His knowledge and research of the events cannot be faulted, and he writes, for the most part, without imparting his own commentary. In fact, without prior knowledge, one would hardly surmise that Keegan is himself, British.  The big exception to that is Keegan's typically British hard line stance of not giving the American forces their just dues. In this aspect, he even contradicts himself in several places. He goes to great length to illustrate to the reader that in the early months of 1918, Germany was still very much capable of winning the war. The Western front had been bolstered by the arrival of German troops from the now defunct Eastern front. The new soldiers from the east brought with them, battle hardened experience and a mindset that they could triumph, as they had in the east. He goes on to tell of how effective German advances had been in early April, advancing a fifty mile wide front over twenty miles in a matter of days. He then follows this sort of information with telling the reader how, though ambitious and courageous, the American forces were largely inconsequential to the conclusion of the war.  When he does acknowledge American victory, it is quickly followed with excuses for the German forces. That said, if you're seeking information about just how American forces rallied to bring an end to over four years of war in a matter of a few months, this book will infuriate you. However, if you are looking for a good overview of the war as a whole, this is one of the best out there. I should add, the book has a quite lengthy notes and bibliography section for further study.Monty Rainey[...]