Jesse, 15 lives in Harlem, New York City.  He is the only child of a bright couple and his best friend, Rise is one of his biggest influences.Jesse and Rise grew up together.  When Rise, 17 turns to crime and joins the Counts, a local street gang and insists on bringing Jesse in with him along with their friend C.J., Jesse starts to reassess their friendship.  He sadly realizes that he and Rise are traveling down different streets; the drive-by shooting of their friend Bobby, 14 has left the neighborhood shaken.  C.J., a musical prodigy who plays piano in their church also has his sights set on a different path.  It is C.J. and Jesse, a budding young artist who is quite talented at drawing who realize they have more in common with each other.Rise and the Counts are in for a Count-down; sadly, drive-bys claim more casualties.  The Counts were described as being on the tame end of street gangs; a warring faction called the Diablos were responsible for shooting a friend; killing a cabbie and later, some members of the Counts.Sidney, a kind and fair police officer takes the boys under his wing.  He is respected in the neighborhood and word on the street was that he was a fair man, which he was.  When Mason, 19 an older member of the Counts was busted for homicide, it was Sidney who took Rise and Jesse to the jail ("Iron City") to see the fate in store for their former friend.  More problems crop up in the neighborhood; Rise, seeing a chance to leave Harlem wants to call Jesse and the Counts together for a final goodbye.  Sadly, that goodbye really was the end.This is an excellent book that reflects the city and street culture well.  The characters are fresh, cutting edge, serious and believable.  The drawings were excellent and a bonus to this book.  Jesse, an aspiring cartoonist created two West Indian charcters, a wise man and a bird.  The bird was a metaphor for Jesse and it is through this avian character that he asks questions in his drawings that Wise answers.  Myers has written many excellent books, but I think he really outdid himself with this one